---
title: 'Updating my site!'
excerpt: 'My site was last updated in 3 or 4 years ago. Over the past summer I decided it was time for change. It took a few months to figure out what I wanted to do, but it''s finally (mostly) complete. Here''s a quick description of how I built this latest version.'
author:
  - 06c4481b-212c-4862-9d64-8b5c7e48a46b
updated_by: 06c4481b-212c-4862-9d64-8b5c7e48a46b
updated_at: 1608180330
id: ed1090c6-b222-4ab3-8e80-9d9acb25cb39
---
## Out with the old!
The last time I really worked on my site, I built it on [Expression Engine](http://expressionengine.com). It's a great CMS, and I'm excited to see where version 6 takes the software, but I wanted to explore the landscape a bit.

I also used the [Bulma CSS](https://bulma.io/) framework to quickly give the site a decent design. One thing I've learned over the years is that putting together a good design is challenging. I love tinkering around with CSS, but I wanted something prebuilt that would help get the layout up and running easily. Bulma made it really easy to have a responsive, good-looking design with minimal work on my part. So that's what I did.

The site remained the same for years after I uploaded everything except for when I added a page here and there.

## In with the new!
If 2020 provided anything, it was an adequate amount of time to realize that it was past time to work on this site. I started exploring blogging and content management platforms. Craft, Kirby, WordPress, Textpattern, I checked them all out.

I found static site generators to be all the rage and took some time to learn a bit about some of them. Jekyll, Hugo, and Pelican were all on the list of software I explored. There's a lot to like about these static generators, but none of them quite fit the bill of what I was looking for.

I discovered headless content management systems. I took a course to learn about [Sanity](https://www.sanity.io/) and [GatsbyJS](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/). It's a pretty cool workflow and setup, but felt a little too much for a simple blog and personal site.

In the end, I settled on [Statamic](https://statamic.com/). Statamic is a modern, flat-file based CMS. I like not needing to have a database backend and that I can check my entire site and all content into a Git repository. Statamic provides a static site generator package that works splendidly. There's also a robust content API to use Statamic as a headless CMS. All said, for me, Statamic is the best of all the different options out there. Lots of flexibility, a helpful community, and solid platform to build any kind of site.

I purchased a Pro license because of Statamic's Antlers templating engine. (And I wanted to support future development!) Antlers is awesome and the Statamic crew has included a ton of useful modifiers and variables that make building the site a breeze. It's really well done.

Statamic comes setup out of the box with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/). I had never heard of Tailwind or utility classes prior to poking around Statamic. It took me a while to wrap my head workflow, but I'm glad I did. Designing with Tailwind is really enjoyable.

## Putting it all together
At some point I'll write more in-depth descriptions of how some of these pieces fit together. For now, this is a high level overview.

I use Laravel Valet to run sites locally. It's really easy to set up, and since Statamic is a Laravel app, it's painless to set Valet up, drop Statamic into a folder, and have things up and running in a few minutes.

I build everything locally. This is a really different workflow than I've used in the past. With Expression Engine, I worked directly on the server after uploading. It's a welcome change to create locally and then push the changes up to my server when I'm ready.

All changes are tracked in Git, and I push them up to a Github repo. I have a bad habit of forgetting to commit smaller changes. I'm working on that.

Statamic is a Laravel app and deploying is a bit different from what I'm used to. The Statamic community suggests Laravel Forge and Digital Ocean or Linode. I'm sure this works well, but the cost of both was a bit more than I wanted to spend, so I opted to use the static site generator to upload to my current host.

Statamic's static site generator works well, and it's easy to use, but I didn't want to have to generate the files locally then upload by hand. So I looked for ways to automate the whole process.

I'm already pushing my code to GitHub, so I thought I'd give GitHub Actions a try. I push the code to GitHub, the Action runs immediately and within a few minutes the site is updated on the server. It's pretty magical. Here's what the action does after every push:

- Install all Composer dependencies for Statamic
- Install all Node dependencies
- Run the npm run dev script to run Tailwind through PurgeCSS
- Run Statamic's static site generator generate command
- Upload all the files to my host

I build, code, and write everything locally. Commit the changes and push them to GitHub. GitHub generates the static files and uploads them to my server. Awesomesauce.

Here's the GitHub workflow for anyone who wants to use a similar method for generating and uploading a static version of their Statamic site to pretty much any host. You'll need to create the secret variables in your repo and change the local and server directory paths.

```
# This is a basic workflow to help you get started with Actions

name: Statamic Build and Deploy

# Controls when the action will run.
on:
  # Triggers the workflow on push or pull request events but only for the main branch
  push:
    branches: [ main ]

  # Allows you to run this workflow manually from the Actions tab
  workflow_dispatch:

# A workflow run is made up of one or more jobs that can run sequentially or in parallel
jobs:
  # This workflow contains a single job called "build"
  build:
    # The type of runner that the job will run on
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    # Steps represent a sequence of tasks that will be executed as part of the job
    steps:
      # Checks-out your repository under $GITHUB_WORKSPACE, so your job can access it
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v2.1.2

      - name: Validate composer.json and composer.lock
        run: composer validate

      - name: Install dependencies
        run: composer install

      - name: Setup Node.js environment
        run: npm install

      - name: Run npm production script
        run: npm run production

      - name: Run Statamic Static Site Generator
        run: php please ssg:generate

      - name: 📂 Sync files
        uses: SamKirkland/FTP-Deploy-Action@4.0.0
        with:
          server: ${{ secrets.FTP_URL }}
          username: ${{ secrets.FTP_USERNAME }}
          password: ${{ secrets.FTP_PASSWORD }}
          local-dir: /home/runner/work/seancannon.me/seancannon.me/storage/app/static/
          server-dir: /public_html/seancannon.me/
```